ADR-14: bootstrap from previously seen peers (#2024)
celestiaorg/celestia-node: docs/adr/adr-014-bootstrap-from-previous-peers.md

</br>

In this approach, we will rely on `peerTracker`'s scoring mechanism that tracks the fastest connected nodes, and blocks malicious ones. To make use of this functionality, we rely on the internal mechanisms of `peerTracker` for peers selection and persistence, and that is by proposing a design that allows storing `peerTracker`'s list of good peers, and opening the design space to integrate peer selection and storage logic.

## Implementation

</br>

### What systems will be affected?

* `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` from `go-header`
* `newInitStore` in `nodebuilder/header.go`

### Storage

We will use a badgerDB datastore to store the addresses of previously seen good peers. The database will be stored in the `data` directory, and will have a store prefix `good_peers`. The database will have a single key-value pair, where the key is `peers` and the value is a `[]AddrInfo`

The peer store will implement the following interface:

```go
type PeerStore interface {
   // Put adds a list of peers to the store.
    Put([]peer.AddrInfo) error
    // Get returns a peer from the store.
    Load() ([]peer.AddrInfo, error)

> }

Author: In implementation yes, but in ADR I think an interface is eloquent and transmits the message clearly

        p.peerLk.Unlock()
                }
        }
 }
```

(_Code Snippet 1.b: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/peer_tracker.go_)

The `peerTracker`'s constructor should be updated to accept the peer store:

```diff
func newPeerTracker(
        h host.Host,
        connGater *conngater.BasicConnectionGater,
+       peerstore Peerstore,
 ) *peerTracker {
```

(_Code Snippet 1.d: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/peer_tracker.go_)

as well as the `libhead.Exchange`'s options and construction:

```diff
 type ClientParameters struct {
        // MaxHeadersPerRangeRequest defines the max amount of headers that can be requested per 1 request.
        MaxHeadersPerRangeRequest uint64
        // RangeRequestTimeout defines a timeout after which the session will try to re-request headers
        // from another peer.
        RangeRequestTimeout time.Duration
        // TrustedPeersRequestTimeout a timeout for any request to a trusted peer.
        TrustedPeersRequestTimeout time.Duration
        // networkID is a network that will be used to create a protocol.ID
        networkID string
        // chainID is an identifier of the chain.
        chainID string
+

> +       peerstore Peerstore

Author: It is odd indeed, but we want this dependency to be optional and given the current signature, we got to do it this way. The implementation is in https://github.com/celestiaorg/go-header/pull/36 please give it a review

> +       peerstore Peerstore

Author: On second thought, I think it shouldn't be a param.
cc @renaynay @Wondertan

        ...
        exchange, err := p2p.NewExchange(...,
                p2p.WithParams(cfg.Client),
                p2p.WithNetworkID[p2p.ClientParameters](network.String()),
                p2p.WithChainID(network.String()),
+               p2p.WithSubjectiveInitialization(storeChainHead.IsExpired),
        )
        if err != nil {
                return nil, err
```

(_Code Snippet 3.c: Example of required changes to celestia-node/nodebuilder/header/constructors.go_)

This piece information will allow the `Exchange` to distinguish between the two cases and use the correct peer set for each case:

```diff
 func (ex *Exchange[H]) Head(ctx context.Context) (H, error) {
        log.Debug("requesting head")
+       // pool of peers to request from is determined by whether the head of the store is expired or not
+       if ex.Params.subjectiveInitialisation {
+              // if the local chain head is outside the unbonding period, only use TRUSTED PEERS for determining the head
+              peerset = ex.trustedPeers
+        } else {
+              // otherwise, node has a chain head that is NOT outdated so we can actually request random peers in addition to trusted

> +              peerset = append(ex.trustedPeers, ex.params.peerstore.Get())

Reviewer: Would it make sense on `Put` operation to store additional time.Now value and check the time passed since last store operation on `Load`, to identify if stored information is likely to be outdate and should be ignored?

# ADR 014: Bootstrap from previous peers

## Changelog

* 2023-05-04: initial draft
* 2023-05-04: update peer selection with new simpler solution + fix language
* 2023-10-04: propose a second approach
* 2023-11-04: propose a third approach
* 2023-14-04: document decision

## Context

Celestia node relies on a set of peer to peer protocols that assume a decentralized network, where nodes are connected to each other and can exchange data.

Currently, when a node joins/comes up on the network, it relies, by default, on hardcoded bootstrappers for 3 things:

1. initializing its store with the first (genesis) block
2. requesting the network head to which it sets its initial sync target, and
3. bootstrapping itself with some other peers on the network which it can utilise for its operations.

This is a centralization bottleneck as it happens both during initial start-up and for any re-starts.

> In this ADR, we wish to aleviate this problem by allowing nodes to bootstrap from previously seen peers. This is a simple solution that allows the network alleviate the start-up centralisation bottleneck such that nodes can join the network without the need for hardcoded bootstrappers up re-start

Reviewer 2: maybe:
```suggestion
In this ADR, we wish to aleviate this problem by allowing nodes to bootstrap from previously seen peers. This is a simple solution that allows the network alleviate the start-up centralisation bottleneck such that nodes can join the network without the need for hardcoded bootstrappers being up on re-start.
```

(_Original issue available in references_)

## Decision

Periodically store the addresses of previously seen peers in a key-value database, and allow the node to bootstrap from these peers on start-up, by following the methodology of:

* Approach A.

> Caveats: In regards to the storage section of approach A, we decided to factorize the store implementation under `das/store.go` to be used by both approach A and the checkpoint store in `daser`.

Author: I think this point needs clarification, I should add to the ADR's doc.

What's meant in here is basically factorizing the `Put` and `Load` behaviors that are implemented against the `ds.Datastore` which should cause no coupling whatsoever.

> Caveats: In regards to the storage section of approach A, we decided to factorize the store implementation under `das/store.go` to be used by both approach A and the checkpoint store in `daser`.

Author: On second read, the main benefit of extraction is less code repetition, but such factorization will be impactful for daser for sure, so to avoid impacting DASer, I will mention that we will follow the same pattern only and no factorization will take place. 👍🏻

> Caveats: In regards to the storage section of approach A, we decided to factorize the store implementation under `das/store.go` to be used by both approach A and the checkpoint store in `daser`.

Author: I ended up not following this path in the implementation, and the ADR no longer mentions this "factorizing".

For the record, @renaynay I meant by factorizing, DRYing up the code such that we have one base store implementation to be used by both das and peerstore, but that's a forsaken path now.

                ),
                Params: params,
        }
 
        ex.trustedPeers = func() peer.IDSlice {
                return shufflePeers(peers)
        }
        return ex, nil
}
 ```

(_Code Snippet 2.b: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/exchange.go_)

The event handlers to be supplied are callbacks that either:

1. Put the new peer list into the peer store
2. Remove a blocked peer from the peer store

Such callbacks are easily passable as options at header module construction time, example:

```diff
+   fx.Provide(newPeerStore),
    fx.Provide(newHeaderService)
...
- func(cfg Config, network modp2p.Network) []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters] {
+ func(cfg Config, network modp2p.Network, peerStore datastore.Datastore) []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters] {
        return []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters]{
            ...
            p2p.WithChainID(network.String()),
+           p2p.WithOnPeersGC(func(peers []peer.ID) {
+               var topTen []peer.ID
+               if len(peers) >= 10 {
+                  topTen = peers[:9]
+               } else {
+                   topTen = peers
+               }
+               peerStore.Put(topTen)

> +           }),

Reviewer 3: This code snippet demonstrates where the main logic of decided Approach A is supposed to land. And it looks like the idea is to land it inside headermodule inside nodebuilder. 

This approach has two important downsides:
* go-header does not have access to the peers it stored.
	* It needs access to those peers because of [this issue](https://github.com/celestiaorg/go-header/issues/25). We want `p2p.Exchange` to be able to request on `Head`(and on other similar methods) non-bootstrap peers we persist. This issue is ___required___ to fully complete the story of coming to the network without bootstrap peers.
	* I would argue that this ADR should consider the above issue and even provide a solution. (cc @renaynay) 
* It makes the whole solution for the bootstrapping problems we have only usable by the node.
	* We can achieve greater and more impactful reusability(comparing to e.g. checkpointStore reuse I mentioned above) if we keep this logic inside of the go-header, together with any storing solution we settle on(with interface or not).
	* As of now, we have only one more consumer of go-header besides node, which is Rollkit. At a much later point, they will face the same problem as we do here. The valuable thing we can do now is to package go-header with our complete solution.

My suggestion to fix the above:
* Implement option `WithPeerPersitence(datastore.Datastore)` instead of `WithOnPeersGC` for `p2p.Exchange`
* If set, persists all the peers locally with or without GC cycles.
  * If with, we should decrease the GC cycle time to like 1 min, as 30mins are rare, and LNs running Exchange with this opt won't save anything. GCing also is not that expensive to run it that seldom.
* On start, it will auto-connect to these peers in a non-blocking manner(like we do for trusted peers in the 'p2p.Exchange')
	* Note that we cannot call these peer we persisted as trusted(will explain in further comment)

Author: Suggestions implemeneted 👍🏻

```diff
 // newP2PExchange constructs a new Exchange for headers.
 func newP2PExchange(cfg Config) func(
        fx.Lifecycle,
        ...
        ...
        []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters],
+       pstore peerstore.Peerstore,
 ) (libhead.Exchange[*header.ExtendedHeader], error) {
        return func(
                lc fx.Lifecycle,
                ...
                ...,
                opts []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters],
        ) (libhead.Exchange[*header.ExtendedHeader], error) {
                peers, err := cfg.trustedPeers(bpeers)
                if err != nil {
                        return nil, err
                }
+              list, err := pstore.Load()
+               if err != nil {
+                       return nil, err
+               }
+               peers := append(peers, list...)
                ids := make([]peer.ID, len(peers))
                for index, peer := range peers {
                        ids[index] = peer.ID
                        host.Peerstore().AddAddrs(peer.ID, peer.Addrs, peerstore.PermanentAddrTTL)
                }

>                 exchange, err := p2p.NewExchange[*header.ExtendedHeader](host, ids, conngater, opts...)

Reviewer 3: Here we take all the persistent peers and use them as trusted. However, trusted peers have a special trusted status for ___security___ reasons, and we can't take any random peers, even with high scores, and put them as trusted.

Trusted peers are exceptional because they are used for 'automatic subjective initialization'. Subjective initialization is part of any ProofOfStake protocol, and, in simple terms, it is bootstrapping of the current network validator set or header. Any user joining the network has to get the header somehow. Usually, in other protocols, users must manually get these headers/valset from trusted parties and manually provide them to their software. We went on a different, more user-friendly path where we request the initial headers from these trusted peers instead of forcing users to find them manually. Users are free to select custom trusted peers if they don't want to trust default bootstrappers and our infrastructure. 

If any random peer becomes trusted, it opens up a new vulnerability for go-header consumers. The malicious trusted peer can fool a user into following his fake fork by performing the Long Range Attack. This is why we cannot make persisted peers trusted and have to manage them separately.

Author: This concern has been addressed 👍🏻

```diff
 // blockPeer blocks a peer on the networking level and removes it from the local cache.
 func (p *peerTracker) blockPeer(pID peer.ID, reason error) {
        // add peer to the blacklist, so we can't connect to it in the future.
        err := p.connGater.BlockPeer(pID)
        if err != nil {
                log.Errorw("header/p2p: blocking peer failed", "pID", pID, "err", err)
        }
        // close connections to peer.
        err = p.host.Network().ClosePeer(pID)
        if err != nil {
                log.Errorw("header/p2p: closing connection with peer failed", "pID", pID, "err", err)
        }
 
        log.Warnw("header/p2p: blocked peer", "pID", pID, "reason", reason)
 
        p.peerLk.Lock()
        defer p.peerLk.Unlock()
        // remove peer from cache.
        delete(p.trackedPeers, pID)
        delete(p.disconnectedPeers, pID)
+       p.onBlockedPeer(PIDToAddrInfo(pID))
}
```

(_Code Snippet 1.c: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/peer_tracker.go_)

The `PIDToAddrInfo` converts a `peer.ID` to a `peer.AddrInfo` by retrieving such info from the host's peer store (_`host.Peerstore().PeerInfo(peerId)`_).

> The `peerTracker`'s constructor should be updated to accept these new event handlers:

Reviewer: Ignore it, this one is from looong time ago

(_Original issue available in references_)

## Decision

Periodically store the addresses of previously seen peers in a key-value database, and allow the node to bootstrap from these peers on start-up.

## Design

## Approach A: Hook into `peerTracker` from `libhead.Exchange` and react to its internal events

</br>

In this approach, we will rely on `peerTracker`'s scoring mechanism that tracks the fastest connected nodes, and blocks malicious ones. To make use of this functionality, we track two important internal events from `peerTracker` in `libhead.Exchange` for peers selection and persistence purposes, and that is by proposing a design that allows access to `peerTracker`'s list of good peers and bad peers, and opening the design space to integrate peer selection and storage logic.

## Implementation

</br>

### What systems will be affected?

* `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` from `go-header`
* `newInitStore` in `nodebuilder/header.go`

### Storage

> We will use a badgerDB datastore to store the addresses of previously seen good peers. The database will be stored in the `data` directory, and will have a store prefix `good_peers`. The database will have a single key-value pair, where the key is `peers` and the value is a `[]PeerInfo`

Reviewer 4: This will be the only key in the datastore that receives updates, filling the value log. Because it's not updated very often and the value is very large, it won't cause bloat, but we should still note this. It probably means we should keep GC enabled.

```go
type peerStore struct {
    db datastore.Datastore
}
```

### Peer Selection & Persistence

To periodically select the _"good peers"_ that we're connected to and store them in the peer store, we will rely on the internals of `go-header`, specifically the `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` structs.

`peerTracker` has internal logic that continuiously tracks and garbage collects peers based on whether they connected to the node, disconnected from the node, or responded to the node while taking into consideration response speed. All connected peers are kept track of in a list, and disconnected peers are marked for removal, all as a part of a garbage collection routine. `peerTracker` also blocks peers that behave maliciously, but not in a routine, instead, it does so on `blockPeer` call.

We intend to use this internal logic to periodically select peers that are "good" and store them in the peer store mentioned in the storage section. To do this, we will "hook" into the internals of `peerTracker` and `libhead.Exchange` by defining new "event handlers" intended to handle two main events from `peerTracker`:

> 1. `OnUpdatedPeers`: _This event is triggered on every garbage collection cycle from `peerTracker`. Before the triggering of this event, the list would have underwent changes from other routines as well and thus the most final version will be available at the time of triggering this event ._

Reviewer 4: This hook should not be called OnUpdatedPeers if it is triggered on every gc cycle. Probably should be called OnGCPeers or OnPeerGC

Author: Although `OnUpdatedPeers` seems to be a misnomer because it's an event that happens within GC, it's still descriptive as to what actually happens to the peer list. `OnGCPeers` sounds a bit vague to me tbh

Reviewer 4: Never name things for how they are used elsewhere, name them for what they are

> 1. `OnUpdatedPeers`: _This event is triggered on every garbage collection cycle from `peerTracker`. Before the triggering of this event, the list would have underwent changes from other routines as well and thus the most final version will be available at the time of triggering this event ._

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. `OnUpdatedPeers`: _This event is triggered on every garbage collection cycle from `peerTracker`. The list will have undergone changes from the other routines before this event is triggered._
```

                return shufflePeers(peers)
        }
        return ex, nil
}
 ```

(_Code Snippet 2.b: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/exchange.go_)

And then define `libhead.Exchange` options to set the event handlers on the `peerTracker`:

```go
func WithOnUpdatedPeers(f func([]]peer.ID)) Option[ClientParameters] {
       return func(p *ClientParameters) {
               switch t := any(p).(type) { //nolint:gocritic
               case *PeerTrackerParameters:
                       p.OnUpdatedPeers = f
               }
       }
}

func WithOnBlockedPeer(f func([]]peer.ID)) Option[ClientParameters] {
       return func(p *ClientParameters) {
               switch t := any(p).(type) { //nolint:gocritic
               case *PeerTrackerParameters:
                       p.OnBlockedPeer = f
               }
       }
}
```

(_Code Snippet 2.c: Example of required changes to: go-header/p2p/go-header/p2p/options.go_)

The event handlers to be supplied are callbacks that either:

1. Put the new peer list into the peer store
2. Remove a blocked peer from the peer store

Such callbacks are easily passable as options at header module construction time, example:

```go

> // newP2PExchange constructs a new Exchange for headers.

Reviewer 4: godoc is incorrect

func newPeerStore(cfg Config) func(ds datastore.Datastore) (PeerStore, error) {

>        return PeerStore(namespace.Wrap(ds, datastore.NewKey("peer_list")))

Reviewer 4: this key is not consistent with the one named above

}
```

(_Code Snippet 3.a: Example of required changes to: celestia-node/nodebuilder/p2p/misc.go_)

```diff
+   fx.Provide(newPeerStore),
    fx.Provide(newHeaderService)

...

- func(cfg Config, network modp2p.Network) []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters] {
+ func(cfg Config, network modp2p.Network, peerStore datastore.Datastore) []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters] {
        return []p2p.Option[p2p.ClientParameters]{
            ...
            p2p.WithChainID(network.String()),
+           p2p.WithOnUpdatedPeers(func(peers []peer.ID) {
+               var topTen []peer.ID
+               if len(peers) >= 10 {
+                  topTen = peers[:9]
+               } else {
+                   topTen = peers
+               }

> +               peerStore.Put(topTen)

Reviewer 4: Here the top 10 are stored but above you say the sorting logic is optional - please add it above for consistency

                }
                lc.Append(fx.Hook{
                        OnStart: func(ctx context.Context) error {
                                return exchange.Start(ctx)
                        },
                        OnStop: func(ctx context.Context) error {
                                return exchange.Stop(ctx)
                        },
                })
                return exchange, nil
        }
 }
```

(_Code Snippet 4.a: Example of required changes to: celestia-node/nodebuilder/header/constructors.go_)

</br>

## Approach B: Periodic sampling of peers from the peerstore for "good peers" selection using liveness buckets

In this approach, we will periodically sample peers from the host's `Peerstore` and select the "good peers", with the "good peers" being the ones that have been connected to the longest possible period of time.

Taking inspiration from [this proposition](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-kad-dht/issues/254#issuecomment-633806123) we suggest to look for peers that have been continuously online, such that, for the given buckets of connection durations:

* < 1 hour ago
* < 1 day ago
* < 1 week ago
* < 1 month ago.

> the "good enough peers" to select should be present in most recent buckets, and should be peers we've seen often. For example, if a peer has been connected to the node for 1 day, then it should figure up in the buckets: "< 1 hour" and , "< 1 day", hence making it a "good enough peer" to select for persistence.

Reviewer 4: figure up?

Author: show up

The bucketing logic that triages peers into the mentioned buckets is executed periodically, with a new list of "good enough peers" being selected and persisted at that same time, and also at the moment of node shutdown.

## Implementation

### Storage

> We suggest to use the same storage mechanism proposed in approach A.

Reviewer 4: Please note how often this key will be written to in this approach, because it is relevant for our storage backend

The length of the list of timestamps will be equal to the amount of times the peer was seen, and the dates from oldest to newest will help the component sort the peer into appropriate buckets.

Example:
A list of 1 timestamp means it's been seen once, and if the timestamp was 3 hours ago, then the peer would be sorted into the "< 1 day ago" bucket.

Depending on how many peers the node will be connected to, this could be the best peer it can get, or the worst.

A better example of what a very good peer would be is:
A peer that has a list of timestamps whose length is equal to 10, and the oldest timestamp was a week ago and the newest from an hour ago. This will make the peer fall into "< 1 week ago" bucket but also all the other recent buckets.

We suggest to also turn the "amount of times seen" into buckets, such that we sort peers into buckets of "how many times" they were seen, modifying the selection criteria for good peers to become:

* Peers that fall in most recent buckets + Peers that fall in highest seen count buckets

**The interface**: We will go with the name `Bucketer` for the lack of a better one for the moment

```go

> type Bucketer interface {

Reviewer 4: Why does this need an interface?

Author: That's the best way I could use to describe a behavior in this ADR

    AddPeer(peer.ID, time.Time)
    AddPeers([]peer.ID, time.Time)
    Sort()
    BestPeers() []peer.ID
    PurgePeer(peer.ID)
    PurgeAll()
}
```

The implementer of this interface should rely on golang maps as the native abstraction for buckets, example:

```go
type bucketer struct {
    timeBuckets map[BucketDuration][]peer.ID
    seenBuckets map[int][]peer.ID
    peersSeen map[peer.ID][]time.Time
}
```

with `BucketDuration` being a new type to enumerate all possible time buckets, example:

```go
type BucketDuration string
const (
    LTOneHour = "< 1 hour"
    LTOneDay = "< 1 day"
    ...
)
```

The `AddPeer` or `AddPeers`, and the `Sort` methods are intended to be called from within a procedure `fetchSortPersistPeers` that is called within a routine that periodically fetches peers from the peer store of the host (_`peerstore.Peerstore`_) which contains all the peers we are connected to.

`fetchSortPersistPeers` will also be called on node shutdown.

`fetchSortPersistPeers` will be as follows:

```go

> func fetchSortPersistPeers(bcktr Bucketer, store PeerStore, host host.Host) {

Reviewer 4: This function does too much. The routine that periodically fetches peers could maybe add to the bucket, even if its in another subroutine - and pass the peers to this function as a slice. This function can be called `persistPeers` and be responsible for sorting and persisting the peers to the store. Why is the storage not a method on the peerstore?

Also, maybe, add a method to the bucketer that returns the sorted best peers?

Author: In terms of storage, we have to distinguish between `Peerstore` (_libp2p's in-mem peerstore_) and the `PeerStore`, the badger store we define for this ADR's purposes.

If you read through the proposed code, the bucketer has a `BestPeers` method that returns the sorted best peers.

I am not entirely opposed to turning this method into `persistPeers([]peer.ID, host.Host)` such that it only receives best peers as a subroutine. This was intended to be an illustrative example and not necessarily a spec for how to write the function.

    goodPeers := make([]peer.PeerInfo, 0)
    peers := host.Peerstore().PeersWithAddrs()
    bcktr.AddPeers(peers)
    bcktr.Sort()
    bestPeers = bcktr.BestPeers()
    for _, bestpeer := range bestPeers {
        goodPeers = append(goodPeers, host.Peerstore().PeerInfo(bestpeer))
    }
    store.Put(goodPeers)
}
```

### Node Startup

In node startup, we propose to use the same mechanism that is proposed in approach A, but also add changes to register the `fetchSortPersistPeers` routine to trigger periodically every other `filterBootstrappersInterval`.

```diff
    baseComponents = fx.Options(
        ...
        fx.Provide(newModule),
+   fx.Invoke(func (ctx context.Context, lc fx.Lifecycle, cfg Config, bcktr Bucketer, pstore PeerStore, host host.Host) {
+     ch := make(chan struct{})
+     ticker := time.NewTicker(cfg.filterBootstrappersInterval * time.Millisecond)
+     go func() {
+       select {
+         case <-ctx.Done():
+         case <-ch:
+         case <-ticker.C:
+            fetchSortPersistPeers(bcktr, pstore, host) 
+       }
+

> +     lc.Append(fx.Hook{

Reviewer 4: Please use fx.Annotate for start and stop instead of hooks

Author: Since this was used in the context of an `Invoke` I am not sure what to annotate, since we are dealing with an invocation. Will look into this.

Reviewer 4: example from existing code:

```
	fx.Invoke(fx.Annotate(
				func(
					bcast libhead.Broadcaster[*header.ExtendedHeader],
					fetcher *core.BlockFetcher,
					pubsub *shrexsub.PubSub,
					construct header.ConstructFn,
					store *eds.Store,
				) *core.Listener {
					return core.NewListener(bcast, fetcher, pubsub.Broadcast, construct, store, p2p.BlockTime)
				},
				fx.OnStart(func(ctx context.Context, listener *core.Listener) error {
					return listener.Start(ctx)
				}),
				fx.OnStop(func(ctx context.Context, listener *core.Listener) error {
					return listener.Stop(ctx)
				}),
			)),
```

Author: @distractedm1nd I am familiar with that example, except that we'd have to have something to annotate. In this example, I would create a new object type called:
```go
type TimeManager struct {
   ch chan struct{}
   ticker time.Ticker
}
```
And have a function to provide this type, as the thing to be annotated, so that we can convert the `Invoke` style into the `Annotate` style
```go
	fx.Invoke(fx.Annotate(func(ctx context.Context) TimeManager {
  	               return TimeManager{ ticker: time.NewTicker(...) }
                               },
				fx.OnStart(func(ctx context.Context) error {
// launch go routine to periodically call fetchSortPersist...
				}),
				fx.OnStop(func(ctx context.Context) error {
				// trigger routine stop by signaling on channel
				}),
			)),

```

        }
    },
),
     fx.Provide(newP2PExchange(*cfg)),
```

(_Code Snippet 3.b: Example of required changes to celestia-node/nodebuilder/header/module.go_)

### Security Concerns: Long Range Attack

With the ability to retrieve previously seen good peers, we should distinguish between those and the trusted peers for cases when we have expired local sync target (_i.e: subjective head_). On such cases, we would like to strictly sync and retrieve the subjective head from our trusted peers and no other, and for other syncing tasks, include the other stored good peers. To achieve this, we need to first include information about the expiry of the local sync target:

```diff

 // newP2PExchange constructs a new Exchange for headers.
 func newP2PExchange(
        lc fx.Lifecycle,
+        storeChainHead *header.ExtendedHeader,
        bpeers modp2p.Bootstrappers,
        network modp2p.Network,
        host host.Host,
        ...
        exchange, err := p2p.NewExchange(...,
                p2p.WithParams(cfg.Client),
                p2p.WithNetworkID[p2p.ClientParameters](network.String()),
                p2p.WithChainID(network.String()),

> +               p2p.WithSubjectiveInitialization(storeChainHead.IsExpired),

Reviewer 5: could either be a method on the header or just an exported utility function, doesn't matter.

Reviewer 3: I discussed with Rene that we need runtime detection for subjective initialization rather than build time, like in this case. The clean way to keep it without breaking existing abstractions of go-header is to introduce _interface-level options_ for the Head interface. That is, so Syncer can then do `exchange.Head(ctx, WithSubjectiveHead(head))`. This option would allow any `Head` implementation to access the subjective header, like `p2p.Exchange` which will decide which way to request basing on the header

Author: Implemented in PRs and in this ADR

        )
        if err != nil {
                return nil, err
```

(_Code Snippet 3.c: Example of required changes to celestia-node/nodebuilder/header/constructors.go_)

This piece information will allow the `Exchange` to distinguish between the two cases and use the correct peer set for each case:

```diff
 func (ex *Exchange[H]) Head(ctx context.Context) (H, error) {
        log.Debug("requesting head")
+       // pool of peers to request from is determined by whether the head of the store is expired or not

> +       if ex.Params.subjectiveInitialisation {

Reviewer 5: one thing we need to consider additionally that i forgot to mention on our call yesterday is that the Head method on exchange can get called during runtime (not just on start for setting the initial sync target). There should be a way to also determine during runtime whether Head should use all good peers or only trusted. It might have to become an argument for the method. Let's see if we can work around it as I'd prefer to not break interface.

Author: Yes indeed

+              // if the local chain head is outside the unbonding period, only use TRUSTED PEERS for determining the head
+              peerset = ex.trustedPeers
+        } else {
+              // otherwise, node has a chain head that is NOT outdated so we can actually request random peers in addition to trusted
+              peerset = append(ex.trustedPeers, ex.params.peerstore.Get())
+        }
+
        reqCtx := ctx
        if deadline, ok := ctx.Deadline(); ok {
                // allocate 90% of caller's set deadline for requests
    ...
-   for _, from := range trustedPeers {
+         for _, from := range peerset {
                go func(from peer.ID) {
                        headers, err := ex.request(reqCtx, from, headerReq)
                        if err != nil {
```

> Other side-effect changes will have to be done to methods that use `trustedPeers` restrictively for requests (_such as `performRequest`_) to allow requesting to previously seen good peers as well (_Reference: [Issue #25](https://github.com/celestiaorg/go-header/issues/25)_)

Reviewer 5: to use previously seen good peers as well.
